>> Brian Holt: useReducer.
If you're coming from Redux,
you'll feel right at home with this.
And if you're not coming from Redux,
you'll learn about Redux later.
So either way, you're gonna be okay.
So here I have this useReducer example.
And what it allows you to do is
change the color of this up here.
So if I click plus red a bunch,
this will turn red.
If I turn plus green, it'll turn yellow.
If I turn that it'll
eventually turn white, right?
Now, this is a lot of state
to keep track of, right?
I have to keep track of updaters and
setters for three different things, right?
And that's kind of a pain to do, right?
It'd be really nice if I had one
function that handled all these
relatively similar operations.
Well, that's what useReduce does for you.
So useReducer is another hook.
If you're not familiar with the term
reducer, it means a function that you can
run that takes in an old state, some sort
of action, and returns to a new state.
That's really all a reducer is.
It's basically just a function with
a certain call signature, okay?
So here with useReducer I
give it the actual function,
which is this one up here,
the reducer function.
And then I give it an initial state.
And this initial state is
everything is black, right?
>> Brian Holt: Do note that
this is different from Redux.
With Redux, you expect it to run
the reducer on the first time,
this does not do that.
>> Brian Holt: In this case,
you give it an initial object and
that's how that works.
Okay, and
then here it gives you back two things.
It gives you back the object,
in this case,
the current state of the store as it were.
And here I'm destructuring out the r,
the g, and the b.
And then it gives you a dispatch function
which allows you to dispatch an action to
the reducer.
So you can see here all these buttons,
it's dispatching INCREMENT_R,
DECREMENT_R, INCREMENT_G,
DECREMENT_G, right?
This is, in my opinion,
quite readable code.
So this is a really good
case to use useReducer.
And then if you look
down here in the reducer,
it takes in the current state
of the object, the action.
And then down here at the bottom,
it returns the state, or
all these actually return state.
And all these are just object.assign,
they're creating a new object,
the old set of state, and
then it's overriding the r, right?
This limitRGB just makes sure that
it doesn't go below 0 or above 255.
Right, that's what this does.
And then the step here is just
going up and down 50, right.
So if I click this,
it's going up to 50 red,
100 red, 150, 200, 250, 255.
Make sense?
It's very Redux like.
Now, what's great about this,
this reducer, it's extremely easy to test.
You just give it an old state, an action,
and then test the output, right?
Which allows you to test data mutation.
And all bugs arise from problems with
data mutation in some sense, right?
So if you can actually test that and make
sure that the mutation of state goes well.
That's a big boon to you.
That's the whole advantage
of Redux in my opinion.
So as you might imagine,
this really replaces a lot of times when
you need Redux, you can just use,
useReducer, right?
Well, what happens if you want to
do it for your entire application?
Well, you can use context and
useReducer together.
Basically Redux, right?
It's about the same thing.
So I don't use Redux as much anymore.
I will still teach it to you so
that you can make whatever decision
you want to make about that.
But I think context and useReducer
largely supplant the need for it.